LVC-RAG Application Restructuring (#3386)
open-edge-platform/edge-ai-suites: metro-ai-suite/live-video-analysis/live-video-captioning-rag/docs/user-guide/get-started.md

| `VDMS_VDB_HOST` | `vdms-vector-db` | Vector DB hostname used by compatibility paths in the backend stack. |

### 3. Download models (one-time)

Download a VLM model that required to generate captions for LVC. For default `CPU` example:

```bash
./model_download_scripts/download_models.sh \
  --model OpenGVLab/InternVL2-1B \
  --type vlm \
  --weight-format int8
```

#### Gated Hugging Face models

Some models (for example, Gemma-3) require a Hugging Face access token. Set the token in `.env` or export it before running the download script:

```bash
export HUGGINGFACEHUB_API_TOKEN=<your-token>
```

#### Specifying the conversion device

By default the model is converted on CPU. To explicitly set the device:

```bash
./model_download_scripts/download_models.sh \
  --model <vlm-model-of-choice-from-huggingface> \
  --type vlm \
  --weight-format int8 \
  --device <CPU|GPU|NPU>
```
> Note: NPU currently requires `int4` quantization for VLM/LLM conversion. If you pass `--device NPU` with `int8` or `fp16`, the script automatically overrides it to `int4`.

The VLM models stored under `ov_models`.

> See [Model Preparation](../../../live-video-captioning/docs/user-guide/get-started/model-preparation.md) for detailed usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Model Preparation](https://docs.openedgeplatform.intel.com/dev/edge-ai-suites/live-video-captioning/get-started/model-preparation.html) for detailed usage.
```
The relative link will work in GH, but won't work on the OEP docs site (due to how the docs build works). I suggest changing it to a link to the docs site.

Author: Thanks. Done update.

> **Note:** The application will take some time to start. Check the container status and ensure that they are in the `"healthy/running"` state using the `docker ps` command before accessing the application.

### 5. Access the application

Follow these steps to use the application:

1. Open the Live Video Captioning UI at `http://<HOST_IP>:4173`.
2. Start a captioning run with a valid RTSP stream.
3. Confirm that captions are being generated.
4. Click the `chat icon` in the top bar (visible only when embedding is enabled).
5. This opens the Live Caption RAG dashboard at `http://<HOST_IP>:4172`.
6. Ask questions related to the current or recent scene.

### 6. Stop the application

```bash
docker compose down
```

## Troubleshooting

###  Live Caption RAG dashboard Does not Open or is Unreachable

- Confirm that `live-video-captioning-rag` container is running.
- Confirm that port mapping `${LIVE_VIDEO_RAG_HOST_PORT:-4172}:4172` is available.
- Check `http://localhost:4172/api/health`.

### Caption pipeline with RTSP not Running in LVC Dashboard

- If your network uses a proxy, add your RTSP stream host or IP to `no_proxy` so the stream connection does not go through the proxy.

> - For more detail on LVC, please refer to the [LVC Documentation](../../../live-video-captioning/docs/user-guide/get-started.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For more detail on LVC, please refer to the [LVC Documentation](https://docs.openedgeplatform.intel.com/dev/edge-ai-suites/live-video-captioning/get-started.html)
```
Same as the previous comment.

Author: Thanks. Done update.
